Lab Work Documentation
Feb 8, 2022:
Visited the Machine Shop to discuss our physical design needs for this semester. Explained our project to Gregg and received some feedback 
about tunnel sizing. Will be looking into suitable materials for tunnel and bee simulation. Currently thinking to go with spherical
metal balls, such as ball bearings, as this is what was chosen in the UEPI research paper and shown to work. 

Feb 15, 2022:
First meeting with TA Amr Ghoname; decided to start looking into other materials to simulate bee, as steel or metal might not be suitable to work
with our sensor rings.

Feb 19th, 2022:
Headed into lab with my group mate Keerat Singh, and began to build our prototype AC bridge circuit. This is going to be the core mechanism that will make
our detection sucessful. 

We set up the arms of the AC bridge with different capacitor values by combining capacitors in series to create unequal capacitance values in the two arms. 
Drove AC bridge with 33 kHz sine waveform to mimic how system will work when we have our sensors in hand. Tried to collect data by simulating
a bee passing through by unbalancng the circuit as described in the previous few sentences. 

Data collecting procedure as follows: [this passage is the same as my partner Keerat's, as we conducted these tests together]

    -Turn off power supply and waveform generator outputs. Wait a few seconds. Adjust the parallel capacitor arm to contain the desired amount of capacitors.
    -Turn on the power supply and the waveform generator output.
    -If bee passage should be simulated, press button to include parallel capacitor arm in circuit.
    -Enable "measure"  on oscilloscope.
    -Wait 5 seconds to allow mean value to be calculated [this was done so we could get a steady value 
                                                         as the signal seemed a little jumpy, system seemed susceptible to noise]
    -Write down the mean amplitude measured by the oscilloscope.
    -Repeat steps 1-4.
    -Write down the "current" measured value of the amplitude measured by the oscilloscope. If the number is changing, use the number that shows up for the most time.

Please find the data collected in this repo: the figure is named AC_data_collection_2_19_2022.jpg

Feb 21, 2022:
Researched what the dielectric constant of bees could be, found a research paper at https://etda.libraries.psu.edu/files/final_submissions/18863,
by Omar Alzaabi at Penn State Univeristy, were he has conducted studies into the properties of airborne insects using radar. By observing how the presence of the insects
interacts with the emitted radar, Alazaabi concludes the dielectric constant value of a honey bee is about 10. Using this value as a guideline, further 
research led me to find that glass has the closet dielectric value to 10. 



Thursday before spring break
in discussions with glen about tunnels

Friday before spring break
soldered wires onto the rings machined by Glen
Assembled prototype tunnel
checked continutity from sensor to wire connection, all passed

Thursday of Spring Break
bought beads

March 20, 2022:
Connected the prototype tunnel to the instrumentation amplifier, sucessfully saw change in amplitude from the output of the instrumentation amplifier when a glass bead
was passed through the sensor



March 21, 2022:
Delivered sensor rings with wires attached back to Glen so that they could be mmounted inside the tunnel.

April 7, 2022:
Picked up Mason Bee House structure from Machine Shop

April 8, 2022:
Was in lab for about 1.5 hours; worked with Keerat on getting Atmega328 up and running on our laptops based on work Piyush had done. 
Concluded that current system that was setup [ SD card is soldered to headers, and Atmega writes directly to SD Card] will not work for our long term use. 
Decided instead that we would need an SD card reader, so that we may eject SD card from microcontroller board and insert into PCs. 

April 10, 2022:
[with Keerat]
Received the power supplies we had ordered, and tested the method we had learned from online [insert resource here] that
allows us to get both positive and negative voltage for our application/ICs. Confirmed that we can +5 and - 5 out of the power supplies, 
will test it this coming week on our actual circuit.

April 12, 2022:
[with Keerat]
Worked on SD card reading. There were some initial problems with the Atmega cirucit: it's connection to the crystal oscillator case was incorrect 
[ XTAL1 was  not grounded, XTAL2 was unused, this is not how it is supposed to be], and through some error in disassembling Piyush's original wiring up of the Atmega circuit , 
we messed up the crystal connection. RESET pin [pin 1] also needed to be pulled high using a resistor [ it was connected directly to VCC by me ]. Zadig did not work as intended,
but using "Program using Programmer" combined with selecting a COM port made programmer easy/possible to use. 
MicroSD card module was then connected; microSD card was formatted and then used with adapter/module. Test circuit of connection to microSD card works: "Testing 1,2,3" appears
in a file named TEST on the microSD card. 

Will work in next lab session to read signals from the demodulator. 

April 16, 2022:
[with Keerat]

Tested the first soldered Sensor Board [soldered by Keerat], and found that the output of the demodulator was not at all what was expected. The demodulator chip simply was 
not responding to input from the instrumentation amplifier. Tried to find the issue by checking continuity between joints and found that joints were connected thoroughly. 
All resistors and capacitors were also verified to be soldered on well to the best of our knowledge. Rebuilt the cicrcuit form the PCB onto breadboard to double check PCB
circuit functionality, and saw that everything was working as expected. Decided to solder a new sensor board, got halfway through. Keerat will retouch solder on originally 
soldered sensor board PCB and retest behavior; hopefully this will resolve our issue. 

Update from the future: retouching solder joints worked

Somewhere along the way:
- learned that there are a few ways to get atmega boot up and running

- created serial interception device with keerat and her arduino to get serial monitor output. helped a little in debugging our sd card issue

- sd card issue


April 25th, 2022:
Big Assembly Day, big problem solving day
April 26th, 2022:
Finished final integration of device
Demo
